Let's get into Microsoft accounts to a greater degree of depth,
honing in very tightly on how they work in Windows 10.
You might recall that in Windows 8 and Windows 8.
1,
Microsoft was a little aggressive about wanting you to log
onto the computer using a Microsoft account.
Now, that can be a deal-breaker for many consumers who just don't trust,
frankly, they don't trust Microsoft to that degree,
and don't want to do that, they want to use a local account.
In a business environment that uses Active Directory we don't want to use
Microsoft accounts for a number of different reasons.
We want to use local accounts and Active Directory accounts on-premises.
So in Windows 10, Microsoft has relaxed those guidances.
I was going to say requirements, but it's really,
strictly speaking, a strong suggestion.
And what you see here is classic Control Panel under User Accounts,
Manage Accounts we have a local account that I've
renamed the Local Administrator Account,
and then we also can define Microsoft account
identities on that machine as well,
and you notice that they show up with the email address that
you use to sign up for Microsoft accounts.
Microsoft accounts do not have to have a Hotmail or Microsoft-owned domain.
They can use any ISP domain; they can use apple.
com or gmail.
com, whatever.
What are the benefits of linking a Microsoft account?
There's really two ways to go.
You could link a Microsoft account to your local account,
that's personally what I do and what I recommend you do,
or you could log on entirely as a Microsoft account.
Assuming that you're connecting your local on-premises
account to your Microsoft account, you do derive some benefits there,
namely cloud synchronization.
As you see here,
notice that we're in the Settings Control Panel and
not the classic control panel.
You can sync your desktop environment, your Internet Explorer and Edge settings,
your passwords.
The idea is that you can log onto multiple Windows 10 machines
and carry all of your preferences with you.
This can be nice if, for instance,
a consumer owns a desktop computer and a laptop computer,
and maybe even a Microsoft Surface tablet.
They have, essentially, a roaming profile that goes from machine to machine.
That's one of the many benefits of cloud connectivity.
However,
in a business environment you may already have a
roaming profile situation in place,
or you may expressly forbid roaming profiles for security and space purposes.
So that brings up management issues concerning the Microsoft account.
Another one would be what's called shadow IT.
If you allow your Active Directory users to connect to a
Microsoft account on their computers,
then what's to stop them from going to the Microsoft App
Store and downloading non-sanctioned apps,
apps that you don't want them to run, and that you're not going to support?
That actually brings up the management task of some businesses,
to block Microsoft account creation on company-owned devices.
Now on one level the Microsoft account gives the user a
little bit more personality on their system.
Especially today we have bring your own device,
and the blurring of the lines between corporate-owned
devices and employee-owned devices,
but a very legitimate concern in business is data leakage,
that if a Windows 10 user, again,
is logged on with an Active Directory domain account and they have
administrative privileges on their workstation,
which hopefully they never should,
and they're able to connect to a Microsoft account on their machine,
they could very easily copy corporate data to their own OneDrive account,
you see what I mean?
So, no surprise I'm sure, you can use Group Policy on Active directory,
The path, as you see here, is under Computer Configuration,
Windows Settings, Security Settings, Security Options.
There's a couple of policies.
This one that you see here is called Account Block Microsoft account,
and you can set this to prevent users from connecting to a Microsoft account on their company-owned devices.